Ar 18228 revamp arender 2026 documentation (#32)
Uxopian/uxodocs: docs/arender/concepts/documents-and-ids.modern.md

## DocumentId

A `DocumentId` is a string-valued handle that uniquely identifies a document within the system. The viewer, the broker, and caching layer all use `DocumentId` as the common key.

The internal string representation is opaque to most consumers. By default ARender uses a Base64 encoding that produces IDs prefixed with `b64_`:

```
b64_dXJsPWh0dHA6Ly9leGFtcGxlLmNvbS9zYW1wbGUucGRm
```

You will see these IDs in viewer URLs and in broker logs. Different [ID generators](../guides/features/document-id-generators.md) produce different formats (encrypted, UUID-based), but from a consumer's perspective the ID is always an opaque string.

:::info
When opening documents by URL, the rendition service only authorizes whitelisted domains. By default, no domain is authorized. See [Opening documents](../guides/features/opening-documents.md) for configuration.
:::

### Hierarchical IDs

> When multiple documents are opened together as a container, each child document receives a `DocumentId` formed from the parent ID followed by `/` and a numeric index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When multiple documents are opened together in a container, each child document's DocumentId is created by appending a / and a numeric index to the parent DocumentId (for example: parentID/0, parentID/1).
```
